---
title: Password and Access Management Policy
category: IT
sensitivity: internal
audience: all
doc_id: it-password-access-v1
version: 1.0
effective_date: 2025-01-01
---

PASSWORD AND ACCESS MANAGEMENT POLICY
AIpportunity Pvt. Ltd.

1. PURPOSE

This policy defines the requirements for creating, managing, and protecting passwords and access credentials at AIpportunity Pvt. Ltd. It applies to all employees, contractors, and service accounts that access company systems, applications, or data. Strong access management is the first line of defence against unauthorised access and data breaches.

2. IDENTITY AND ACCESS MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK

AIpportunity Pvt. Ltd. manages identities through Microsoft Azure Active Directory (Azure AD / Entra ID). All user accounts are created, modified, and deactivated through the IT Service Management (ITSM) portal by the IT team on formal request. No user account is created outside this process.

2.1 Single Sign-On (SSO)
Where available, all applications use Azure AD-based SSO. Employees use their company credentials (firstname.lastname@aiopportunity.in) to authenticate across all SSO-enabled applications. Maintaining separate application-specific credentials for SSO-enabled apps is not required.

2.2 Principle of Least Privilege
Access rights are granted on the principle of least privilege: each account is given the minimum access rights necessary to perform its designated function. Access rights are reviewed quarterly by IT and the respective system owners. Excess privileges are revoked without notice.

3. PASSWORD REQUIREMENTS

Where password-based authentication is used (i.e., for applications not covered by SSO), the following requirements apply:

3.1 Password Complexity
Passwords must:
- Be a minimum of 14 characters
- Contain at least one uppercase letter, one lowercase letter, one numeral, and one special character
- Not contain the employee's name, username, or date of birth
- Not be a previously used password (last 10 passwords are blocked)
- Not be a common dictionary word or keyboard pattern (e.g., Password@1, Qwerty123)

3.2 Password Expiry
Standard user passwords expire every 90 days. Privileged administrator accounts expire every 60 days. Employees receive a reminder 14 days before expiry. Accounts with expired passwords are locked at login time.

3.3 Password Reuse
Reuse of any of the last 10 passwords is blocked by policy enforcement at the directory level.

4. MULTI-FACTOR AUTHENTICATION (MFA)

MFA is mandatory for:
- All Microsoft 365 and Azure AD access (including email, Teams, SharePoint)
- VPN connection
- All administrative and privileged accounts
- Any application containing sensitive or restricted data

The approved MFA method is the Microsoft Authenticator app. SMS-based OTP is permitted only as a backup method. Hardware tokens are available for employees who cannot use a smartphone and must be requested through IT.

4.1 MFA Device Registration
Employees register their MFA device through the Microsoft My Sign-ins portal (myaccount.microsoft.com). Lost or stolen MFA devices must be reported to IT immediately so the registration can be revoked and a new device enrolled.

5. PRIVILEGED ACCESS MANAGEMENT

5.1 Definition
Privileged accounts are accounts with elevated permissions: system administrators, database administrators, cloud infrastructure accounts, and service accounts. Privileged access is a high-value target for attackers.

5.2 Controls
All privileged account activity is logged in the Privileged Access Management (PAM) system. Privileged accounts are separate from daily use accounts — administrators use their privileged account only for administrative tasks and their standard account for routine work. Just-in-time (JIT) access is used for cloud environments: access is granted for the duration of a specific task and automatically revoked.

5.3 Service Accounts
Service accounts (non-human accounts used by applications) must be registered in the ITSM asset register. Each service account must have a designated human owner. Service account passwords are managed in the PAM vault and must never be stored in code, configuration files, or tickets.

6. ACCESS PROVISIONING AND DEPROVISIONING

6.1 Joiner
IT creates the user account and provisions role-based access group memberships on or before the joining date, based on the access request from HR. Additional access required for the role must be requested by the manager through the ITSM portal within the first week.

6.2 Mover (Role Change)
When an employee changes role, HR notifies IT through the HRMS. IT adjusts access rights to match the new role within 2 working days. Access from the previous role is revoked unless a specific carry-over request is approved.

6.3 Leaver
On the last working day, IT disables the account and revokes all active sessions, VPN certificates, and MFA device registrations. Email is redirected to the manager for 30 days. Shared mailboxes and distribution lists are updated by IT on request from HR.

7. FORBIDDEN PRACTICES

The following are strictly prohibited:
- Sharing passwords with any other person including managers or IT support
- Writing passwords on paper or storing them in unsecured documents
- Using company passwords for personal accounts
- Logging in as another user using their credentials
- Allowing another person to use your logged-in session

IT support will never ask for a password in any communication. Any request for a password claiming to be from IT is a social engineering attempt and must be reported immediately.

8. PASSWORD MANAGER

AIpportunity Pvt. Ltd. provides access to an enterprise password manager (currently Bitwarden for Business). All employees are encouraged to use it for managing complex passwords. Passwords for SSO-enabled company systems must not be stored in personal password managers or browsers.

9. INCIDENT RESPONSE FOR CREDENTIAL COMPROMISE

If an employee suspects their credentials have been compromised (suspicious login alerts, unknown devices in account activity, social engineering attempt), they must:
1. Change their password immediately
2. Report to IT security at security@aiopportunity.in
3. Do not delay — credential compromise incidents are time-sensitive

IT will investigate, revoke active sessions, audit access logs, and determine whether any data was accessed.

For queries, contact: itsupport@aiopportunity.in
